Your colon is the last part
of your digestive system,
where water and salt are removed,
leaving solid waste before elimination.
Sigmoidoscopy
is a diagnostic
and screening procedure
to look at the lower parts of the colon.
It is performed, with a slender,
flexible lit tube
called a sigmoidoscope,
which is inserted into the rectum
and guided into the colon.
A fiberoptic camera on the scope
enables your doctor to look
at the lining for ulcers,
abnormal growths,
inflammation,
and bleeding from the rectum
up to the descending colon.
Sigmoidoscopy is used to screen
for polyps and early signs of
colon cancer
and to find the cause of problems
such as diarrhea and abdominal pain.
Polyps and tissue samples
can be removed with instruments
inserted in the scope.